(data) add odoc 3.0.0 release announcement (#3079)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/changelog/releases/odoc/2025-03-20-odoc-3.0.0.md

  - Fix indentation bug with verbatim in tags by jonludlam · Pull Request #1312 · ocaml/odoc · GitHub
  - Driver: Check for missing/unknown opam packages by jonludlam · Pull Request #1311 · ocaml/odoc · GitHub
  - Fix suppress_warnings parameter by jonludlam · Pull Request #1304 · ocaml/odoc · GitHub
  - Further fixes for virtual libraries by jonludlam · Pull Request #1309 · ocaml/odoc · GitHub
  - Fix issue #610 - `odoc html-fragment` not producing headings correctly by jonludlam · Pull Request #1306 · ocaml/odoc · GitHub
  - Fix classify when there are archives sharing modules by jonludlam · Pull Request #1310 · ocaml/odoc · GitHub
---

We are delighted to announce the release of Odoc 3! This is a big release with loads of new features and bug fixes, and we encourage everyone to install it and try the new features!

This release has been cooking for a long time - it’s been more than a year since odoc 2.4 landed, and a huge amount of work has gone into this. Thanks to the many others who contributed, either by code or by comments: @juloo, @panglesd, @EmileTrotignon, @gpetiot, @trefis, @sabine, @dbuenzli, @yawaramin, and more.

Here is an overview of some major new features:

> - The generated documentation include the source code. You can jump from any item in the documentation straight to its rendered source; no matter how much of OCaml’s complex module system you are using.
> - Search by type! Our detective sherlodoc will find your lost value given its type.
> - Warnings are now clearly visible and useful, no longer buried among your dependencies’ warnings.
> - Self host your documentation, but link to ocaml.org for your dependencies
> - Odoc 3 features a global sidebar, allowing you to discover the most hidden corner of underground documentation
> - You can now add images to your documentation, as well as video and audio files
> - Reference items from other packages! With the ability to use cross-package links in your documentation, the generated documentation is now truly connected.
> - Hierarchical documentation pages allow you to structure your documentation better
> - The build dependencies are friendlier with incremental build systems, allowing better shared build caches
> - Quality of life improvements! Many improvements have been piling up since we started odoc 3. For instance: Add clock emoji before @since tag (@yawaramin, #1089)

Author: ```suggestion
- Search by type! Our detective sherlodoc will find your lost value given its type.
- Odoc 3 features a global sidebar, allowing you to discover all documentation pages
- The generated documentation include the source code. You can jump from any item in the documentation straight to its rendered source; no matter how much of OCaml’s complex module system you are using.
- You can now add images to your documentation, as well as video and audio files
Hierarchical documentation pages allow you to structure your documentation better
- Reference items from other packages! With the ability to use cross-package links in your documentation, the generated documentation is now truly connected.
- The build dependencies are friendlier with incremental build systems, allowing better shared build caches
```
